(air swishing)
In this video, we're gonna take care
of two problems; first, we need to delete something,
it doesn't actually get removed from the cart,
and second, we're actually gonna make that work,
but it's still gonna feel a little bit sluggish,
so we're gonna look at something called optimistic response,
which I really like, to have a really snappy interface,
and sort of do the database calls and stuff,
in the background.
So first, let's get this removing immediately,
now what we could do when we delete something,
we could do a re-fetch of the currently logged in users,
and that would then update this, however, we can also
just reach into the cache, and delete that item from
the cache, once the data comes back; we open up our remove
from cart.js file, and remember that we just ask
for the id of the item that was removed.
And the reason why we ask for the id of the item
that was removed, is so that we can actually remove it
from the cache, and this is done with an update method
on our mutation, so the way that that works,
is you go to your mutation, and we obviously,
are passing the mutation and the variables right now;
we're gonna pass another one called update,
and that's going to take a function,
and we're gonna say this.update.
I always like to call it update, if I have one, single
update function that lives in that component,
then we'll go here, and we'll say update is equal
to an arrow function; this update function will get called,
and maybe we should write a comment about this,
this gets called as soon as we get a response back
from the server, after a mutation has been performed;
that update function is going to take in two things,
first, we take in the cache, second, we take in
the payload, and the cache is the Apollo cache
that we have, so we can read into the Apollo cache
directly from there.
And secondly, we get a payload, which is the actual dump
of information as that is returned from the server,
once it's done, and in our case, we're just gonna get
the id of the mutation result, so what we're gonna do here,
is we're gonna first, read the cache;
second, we're going to remove that item from the cart,
and third, write it back to the cache;
first thing we need, is the Current User Query,
I don't believe we are import, oh, we are importing
on line six, import Current User Query,
we haven't used it, yet.
So, we're going to read the cache, here we go,
so I say const data is equal to cache.readquery;
we're going to read the query, the Current User Query,
then let's just console.log the data, and maybe right
above this with the console.log, Running remove from cart
update function, so we know what's going on here;
we'll go back here, open it up,
remove one of these items here, and a second later,
we get Running remove from cart function,
and then we get the data inside of that, you can see
there's me, and inside of that, you see we have our cart.
What we now need to do, is manually remove this
from the cache; that's what we'll do here;
first, let's take the id from the cart,
so we'll say const cartItemId is equal
to the payload.data, .removeFromCart.id;
the data is going to be what we get back from the server,
inside of that, we get a removeFromCart mutation,
and inside of that, we have an id, then we're going
to simply remove it.
So we'll say, data.me.cart is equal to data.me.cart.filter,
and we're just going to filter out if it has that id;
this is a cart item, and we'll filter it out if
the cartItem.id doesn't equal the cartItemId,
then finally, we'll write it back into the cache,
we'll say cache.writeQuery, and the query we're going
to write is Current User Query, and the data that we're
going to pass, is going to be the data that we pulled
from this query.
And you know that we don't need to type data data,
it's simply data; now, if I try to go and delete
one of the items that I have not yet deleted in my cart,
we get a error; (mumbling)
cache, is not defined, alright, one more time,
give it a hard refresh, remove this, and you'll see
that after a split second, it actually gets removed
from the cart, so that is how you manually update
your cache; however, there still is, let me delete this one,
you see there still is a split second,
and that's because the request has to go back to the server,
the server has to delete the item,
and then return to us, the id.
Now, we can make that a little bit faster,
and do something called an optimistic response,
meaning that we still want to run this update function,
but let's run it immediately, because we know it's probably
going to work, and we should be able to update the UI
to make it look like it worked, and then behind the scenes,
we'll actually do the deleting.
So, it's actually pretty simple, all you have to do
is go down to your mutation, and give it what you think
the server is going to respond with,
so that's called an optimistic response; it's going to be
an object, then inside of the object, you have to give
what are called type names of what type we have,
so we're gonna assume that it's going to return a mutation,
and inside of that mutation, we have the removeFromCart;
remember that's what we got, right here.
So we're gonna assume that it returns a removeFromCart
object, and inside of that, we're going to assume
that it's going to return an id with the item
that was removed id, and that's this.props.id,
and what will happen, is that when we actually delete
the item, it's gonna optimistically, immediately reply
with this piece of information, and then in the background,
it's going to go ahead and remove it, so I'm gonna add
this item to my cart, here, and now, when I remove it,
let's clear out our console, here.
You see that immediately, it ran running Remove From Cart,
and then it ran again, when it actually worked,
and that was really, really nice, because we immediately
saw it leave, and then it sort of cleaned up after itself,
after it worked properly, and if there's anything wrong
with that response, then we would get the error
and show it to the user; a little bit of a problem here,
missing field typename in, oh, and we also have
to give it a type name for here.
Prisma will automatically inject these typenames for us,
but because we're doing it on the client side here,
we need to do it ourselves, so the typename for this,
is going to be a CartItem, right?
Because that's the type that we're returning,
and really, the only field that we care to return
is the actual id; let me just add one more item to our cart,
got another one, now, if I remove 'em, you see that they
immediately get removed, then behind the scenes,
it's all cleaned up; you could do that for your adding
to cart as well, or you could manually or optimistically
return all of the data, so if we were to look at
our item.js, this AddToCart, if you were to pass
the image, the title, and the price to the AddToCart,
you could optimistically reply with an object that had
all that information, and then you could write
an update function that would manually add it.
I'm not gonna do that now, just because I don't mind
that we have this temporary adding to cart;
it's pretty quick behind the scenes, however, if you did
want an instant update of your UI while that stuff's
happening in the background, you could reach for both
the update function and the optimistic response.